hi this is Dan from Rock paracord today
I'm going to show you all how to make a
lanyard using a round braid and ending
it with a cobra weave and then attaching
a side release buckle here with a
lanyard string now the side release
buckle is used just because you want to
be able to pop this off and then this is
how you would loop it through whatever
your you're tying it to whether it be a
camera you know a nametag whatever so
let's get started here I have two pieces
here that I'm going to use to show you
all how to make it these aren't the
actual length that you want to use to
make something like this you're going to
use approximately 120 inches of each
color here I just have about sixty
inches of each color just for time
purposes just to show you all kind of
how to do it I have my tools here I have
a different type that you just saw a
different type of lanyard string here
but it still has your slot side release
buckle so we're going to get started
okay to start you're going to take your
two pieces of 550 paracord and you're
going to have them perfectly in half and
then you're going to start your round
braid I've done a bunch of videos on the
round braid but I'll show you again
you're going to have these going in in
opposite directions so you're going to
crisscross them like this fold one over
all right and you're going to pull it
around and then you're going to pull the
opposite color around underneath it and
one technique that I use that I've
stated in my other videos is you want to
keep the same pattern so this string up
here that's in front I always put that
to the
right okay and then the string that's on
my right
I always put that to the front so to the
right to the front okay and then go back
and forth like that keeping it pretty
tight you want to keep it all untangled
down here and so just back and forth
like that till you get maybe about I
don't know 12 inches or so from the end
because you want some excess to do your
Cobra weave at the end all right so I'm
going to continue this round braid here
all the way down and I'll pick back up
when I get down to the end okay I'm down
here at the end I have about 10 to 12
inches of 550 cord left and what you
want to do is you want to separate you
know have one of each color over here
one of each color over here and then
what you're going to do is on this end
you have this little loop this is where
I use my forceps and I took it in there
and I take two of the you know ends
opposite colors again and I just pull it
through the loop there at the end okay
and then that's how I kind of connect
the two ends together to make the loop
now obviously that's a lot smaller than
what you need it but for teaching
purposes it'll work alright so here's
what we have
okay we have the two pieces going
through the loop coming down and that's
what you're going to use to connect this
side release buckle and then these two
pieces that are hanging off on the
outsides those are going to be what
you're going to use to make your Cobra
weave so now these two pieces hanging
down in the middle I'm going to attach
my lanyard side release buckle and
sometimes it's kind of difficult to
poke these things in here one thing that
I suggest that I'm actually going to do
that is to when you melt the end this
one's already melted but when you melt
it you know smash it flat on the table
try not to use your fingers because it's
not real fun so I should have that thin
enough now to fit through here
there we go
okay and slide that up to where however
long you want your Cobra weave to be and
then also depending on how much you have
left over here you may you know want to
make it longer shorter whatever alright
and then what you're going to do is
you're going to tuck this around and
then you know get that length and then
what I do is I cut it off on that
particular length that I need all right
there and then what I'll do is I'll melt
it and kind of stick it to itself now
this is where you may not be able to
avoid getting your fingers burned but if
you lick your fingers you should be okay
alright so now that's temporarily kind
of welded on there pull everything tight
all right and now you're going to start
your Cobra weave okay again there's a
lots of videos on that okay you're just
gonna make sure everything's nice and
straight go over under through all that
good stuff
and you're securing that little loop
that you've aid to hold the side release
buckle lanyard string on
okay and you go down till you get to the
buckle and you're done and obviously you
know you can make it longer or skinnier
depending on and then I mean you can use
either side this side kind of looks a
little bit prettier so then you cut
these ends off
melt it up so I'm done come on done
when you're done now obviously if you
use the longer measurement that I've
told you about 120 inches then this will
have no problem fitting over your neck
and that's it and it'll look something
like this one thanks for watching like
or subscribe you got that oh yeah